Now after we have created a policy for a blog post you still see that we display the edit and delete
buttons for everyone.
Even though I am currently not authenticated at all you can see that on the right there is no user name
and also if I will authenticate as let's say John Doe which in our current application is an admin.
And even though I have temporarily disabled inside the provider that there is an override to the general
rules that we have defined inside the policy for the blog post.
He can still see the buttons to edit and delete posts that are not created by John Doe and this results
in the 400 free page.
So it depends if you'd like to show that this behavior to the user that when he clicked something he
knows that he's not authenticated but probably some of the times you would like to just hide the buttons
from the user if he is unable to actually perform this operation.
So obviously we are covered here inside the larval blade template.
So what I opened here is the index blade BHP from within views posts folder and here those two things
you can see is first one is the edit button and the second one is the delete button.
Now we can verify user permissions from within Lara blade as we would inside the controllers so we can
use that can directive.
And now that we have defined our policy and registered the policy using our provider.
So let's go to the ALF provide our service provider for a second.
So as we have defined that there is a blog post policy inside this particular policy class.
And of course the abilities are the method names.
Now we can do what we did inside controller so we can check whether the current user can update the
post
and we have to close this directive using and can now we can do the same for the delete button.
So we right can delete post and we close that by and can.
So you can see it's extremely simple and even you can read this code as you would be reading a normal
language.
It really makes sense.
So we are checking if someone can update a post.
So there is.
It's extremely verbose.
It's very clear what is happening here.
So save this changes.
And now let's go to our blog post least.
So now you can see I do not see any buttons.
I only see buttons below the posts that were actually actually created by John Doe.
So to further verify that it actually works.
Let's go back to our our service provider and let's enable back for a second hour override our gate
check interception to give every user that is an admin an ability to update their post.
So this is what we have did before save the changes and now refresh this page while it didn't work.
And the reason is because we haven't updated the name of the ability.
So we previously have changed that to the posts update where we should actually modify its name because
now it is just update.
So let's modify that and refresh again.
So now since John Doe is an admin we are authenticated as John Doe we can edit all the posts but we
can only delete our own now if we would also give admins ability to delete everything like so we should
be able to edit and delete everything
now there is also another great directive we can use.
So other than can we can use cannot.
So it is just an opposite to what Ken is doing so we can check.
Cannot let's say cannot delete post and cannot.
So here will be able to display something like you.
You can't delete this post.
Let's see if that would work.
So first we'll have to remove the delete ability from the admin abilities save the changes.
And now you see this message that you cannot you can't delete this post.
So obviously displaying a message like that doesn't make any sense.
So I will just comment that out but just in case you will ever need to do that you will know how to
make this checks inside the larval blade templates.